Add Design Guidelines (#55)
bevyengine/bevy_editor_prototypes: design-book/src/design-paradigms.md

# Design Paradigms

## Non-Overlapping

The Ui should enable you to always view all relevant information and tools at any given moment, you should never have to move a window out of your way, for that reason, as well as sticking with bevy's modular structure, Bevy uses a divided window layout we call Panes.

1. Screens; the entire window enables you to configure workspaces using multiple editors.
2. Panes; the container of an editor. Editors can each operate similar to a stand alone editor, like for modeling, painting or scripting. Editors can both follow Screen level user context ("Active" or "Selected") and offer local context browsing.
3. Regions; every editor allows further subdivision to provide button/menu headers, toolbars, channel views, and what more is needed to serve its functionality.

## Non-Blocking

> Tools and interface options are being designed to not block the user from using any other parts of Bevy Editor. Bevy Editor doesn't pop-up forms that the user must fill. The UI should stay responsive by all means, at least for the common and most used operations. When things exceptionally do block (Like Running the game) it should be clearly indicated and allow an immediate exit. User's don't like their workflow being interrupted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI should stay responsive whenever possible. Tools and interface options should not block the user from using any other parts of Bevy Editor. When long-running blocking tasks are required, it should be clearly indicated and allow an immediate exit. Users don't like their workflow being interrupted!
```

## Non-Modal

User input should remain as consistent and predictable as possible, do not change what inputs do on the fly without clear communication.

> All input behavior changes should be "Temporary" modes, immediately ending the operation when a user stops with actions.

Reviewer: This needs more clarity

Author: Not sure how best to clarify it, generally it just means dont override/try to override common tools/shortcuts/behaviors when your tool is enabled. 
Ex: G in blender makes you go in free move object mode, hitting the knife tool doesnt change that.

Author: https://developer.blender.org/docs/features/interface/human_interface_guidelines/paradigms/#non-modal
Blender's version has more context to work with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When input behavior changes (like when in a special camera mode that overrides normal controls), the change in behavior should be temporary, and require continuous user input (typically pressing a key or holding a click) to remain active.
```

Author: Honestly, Non-modal should probably be enforced by the shortcut manager system? dont let panes take that control and it never becomes a design issue

Reviewer: I think it's still relevant for operations inside of the viewport, like rotating objects.

## Select -> Operate

In Blender you first indicate which data you work on, and then what you want to do. The same applies for Bevy. This follows the non-modal principle; there's no active tool mode you need to set first to be able to use the tool on what you select after. This concept enables a fast and flexible work flow.

> ## Bevy Editor is for Artists

Reviewer: I think we should explicitly lampshade Blender's section here by linking to it <3

> In [Blender](https://developer.blender.org/docs/features/interface/human_interface_guidelines/paradigms/#select-operate) you first indicate which data you work on, and then what you want to do. The same applies for Bevy. Quote from Blender's guidelines: "This follows the non-modal principle; there's no active tool mode you need to set first to be able to use the tool on what you select after. This concept enables a fast and flexible work flow."

Reviewer 2: My very naive non UX person take :D

Perhaps there is some jargon that I am not familiar with, because I instantly thought of Blender when I read the "Non-Modal" subheading.

Is this more of an operation/interaction specific "logical order"?

Tools like "terrain editors" would also have some kind of "edit" mode. Would this design paradigm include those?

Could ask the same about will Bevy editor not have a "Play" mode?

For context, Blender itself even uses the word "mode" prominently.

<img width="161" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90ce7680-ee25-498f-999d-df649a16a2b1">

and

<img width="429" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/59615de2-4b23-4e1d-9e67-67b1a6366dcf">

Author: Blenders non modal does have exceptions.
I left it open ended so that when we discover a necessary exception we can add it.

https://developer.blender.org/docs/features/interface/human_interface_guidelines/paradigms/#non-modal

> ## Bevy Editor is for Artists

Reviewer 2: Really nitpicking here, but perhaps "teams" (aka including sound, design, etc) as an alternative to artists, or is this just the goals for MVP ?

Author: Generally speaking if you aren't a programmer you're an artist, artist doesn't just mean models/textures its everything besides the code. Its the sound design, its the level design, if it ends with "design" its an artist role, even if they aren't called artists, but the main goal of this section is to say "bevy editor requires no code experience to be usable/useful"
